With the advent of the 21st century, humanity has entered an age in which global-scale exchanges transcending national boundaries have grown stronger by leaps and bounds. Japan too, is expected to display its unique characteristics and contribute to human civilization, as it opens itself to the world. The University of Tokyo firmly believes that, literally becoming “the world’s University of Tokyo”, an institution that serves the global public, is the best way to respond to the faith entrusted in it by the Japanese people and thereby serve Japanese society in this new era. The University therefore dedicates itself to pursue the truths and universal realities transcending the national, ethnic, and language barriers. Through its education and research, the University of Tokyo is also determined to contribute to world peace and human welfare, coexistence of human being with nature, creation of a safe environment, balanced sustainable regional development, advancement of science and technology, and the critical evaluation of traditional culture and creation of new culture. In accordance with these aims, as a pioneer in the new era directed at fulfilling its mission, the University of Tokyo has formulated the “Charter of The University of Tokyo” to clarify its fundamental principles and goals.

Established in 1877, The University of Tokyo is the oldest university in Japan. As a representative of Japan, it has greatly contributed to the development of the modern Japanese state. In 1949, as a part of the post-World War II educational reforms in accordance with the postwar Japanese Constitution, integrating the lessons from history and to erase the negative effects of the past, the University of Tokyo re-launched itself under the new system for institutions of higher learning as a university dedicated to the formation of a peaceful, democratic nation and society. Ever since, in response to societal demands, this University has striven for the progress and promotion of education and research and has contributed to the rapid developments in science and technology.

Following the first two phases of the University’s original establishment and postwar reforms, the University of Tokyo is now facing its third major phase of development as it is being transformed as a part of the national university corporation and is seeking a new position capable of manifesting its autonomy more freely. Concomitant with this transformation, the University of Tokyo, while perceptively acknowledging its accumulated record of achievements, recommits itself to being a driving force for world-class academic research and to being an institution that nurtures intellectual citizens with a futuristic global outlook who will contribute to the realization of an unbiased society, advancement of science and technology, and creation of new culture. A prerequisite for the University of Tokyo’s next new leap is a united effort by the faculty and staff members in the successful management of the University.

A university originates from the fundamental character of academic pursuits that are conducive to intellectual growth and open to the infinite development of human possibilities. This requires freedom and autonomy. At the same time, the progress in science and technology demands a high level of ethical and social responsibility in the minds of the bearers of these fields. Furthermore, with the advent of a society in which knowledge has a decisive meaning in all fields, linking with other sources of knowledge is becoming increasingly significant in the development of university education and research. From these perspectives, the University of Tokyo, while aspiring to self-governance and autonomy, is opening itself up to the world, and promoting bilateral links between the University and society to benefit the society through research and at the same time creating research activities in response to societal demands.

The University of Tokyo must place great importance on its own decisions as an institution in order to make effective use of the resources entrusted to it by the Japanese people and society, as well as carry out continued self-reforms and achieve world-class level education and research, while being open to critical evaluation by society regarding its decisions and practices. The University of Tokyo is thus, opening up its activities for public evaluation. To meet global demands, the University is transforming itself and undergoing necessary reforms by contributing to the exchange, creation and development of academic pursuits and knowledge in the world.

By promoting international education and research, the University of Tokyo shall strive to broaden its internationalism and deepen its understanding of the various regions of the world, as it promotes education and research that aspires for truth and peace. While being constantly aware of its status as a Japanese university located in Asia, The University of Tokyo, shall strive to strengthen its links with Asia and advance mutual exchanges with diverse parts of the world by taking advantage of its accumulated expertise, knowledge-base and research capacity.

The University of Tokyo in recognizing the importance of having diversity in its constituent members shall guarantee no discrimination based on nationality, gender, age, language, religion, political or other reasons, origin, property, lineage, marital status, position within the household, handicaps, ailments, career, etc., and shall strive to ensure that all its members shall have the opportunity to participate widely in university activities.

The University of Tokyo takes great joy in ensuring the best conditions and creating an ideal environment for academic pursuits open to the world, free of any kind of discrimination, for the sake of the generations that will shoulder the future of both Japan and the world, and benefit those aspiring for truth. To achieve this mission, the University of Tokyo, through this Charter sets forth as a collective body of knowledge, and pledges to advance itself with the supportive powers of all its members.

1. The fundamental goals of academic pursuits
    The goals of the University of Tokyo, based on academic freedom, lie in the pursuit of truth, creation of knowledge, and maintaining as well as developing the highest level of education and research in the world. Being deeply aware of the influence research can exert on society, the University shall strive to secure broad links with society in response to social dynamism, and to contribute to the development of humanity, as well. In addition to promoting education and thereby repaying to society the expertise it has accumulated since its founding, the University of Tokyo shall develop international education and research and accomplish bilateral exchanges with the world.

2.  Goals of education
    The University of Tokyo shall open its doors to all of its campuses to everyone with suitable qualifications and aptitude for learning. In each branch of higher learning, it will nurture people of leadership qualities who possess an international character and a pioneering spirit in addition to being equipped with expert knowledge, comprehension powers, insight, practical strengths and imagination. Toward this goal, the University of Tokyo shall seek the highest standard of education in the world, all the while respecting the individuality of students and their right to learn.

3. The educational system
    The University of Tokyo shall adopt a flexible system integrating diverse and specialized education on a wide-ranging liberal arts foundation, while striving untiringly towards reform at the undergraduate level. At the graduate school level, the University shall take advantage of its feature as a multi-faceted university possessing graduate schools and affiliated institutes specialized in diverse fields, to provide a broad-ranging, highly specialized education system for fostering scholars and professionals with high-level of expertise.

    The faculty members of The University of Tokyo, as researchers in the forefront of their respective fields, shall systematically integrate their experiences and accomplishments in their teaching. In addition, the University shall strive to arrange an economic support system in order to offer the best educational environment to students and remove barriers to learning.

4. Evaluation of education
    The University of Tokyo shall conduct strict, regular and appropriate evaluations of the students’ academic achievements with the objective of providing the highest level of education in the world.
    In addition to self-review of faculty members’ educational activities and various other conditions for education, the University of Tokyo shall obtain evaluations from both students and appropriate third parties, and promptly implement these evaluations in the attainment of its educational goals.

5. The internationalization of education and its links with society
   The University of Tokyo shall host students and faculty members from various regions of the globe as an institution open to the world and the University shall also send its own students and faculty members abroad and thus build an international network in education.

   Along with the nurturing of faculty, staff, researchers and students who shall contribute to the development of knowledge, the University shall positively advance education that caters to societal demands, such as for high-level specialized professional education and for lifelong learning opportunities for members of society.

6.  Research principles
    The University of Tokyo respects the diverse, independent and creative research activities by its members and institutions engaged in seeking truths and creation of knowledge, and aims to pursue research level with that of the world’s highest level.

     The University of Tokyo recognizes that research ought to serve the development of peace and welfare of humanity, and undertakes regular self-examination of the methods and contents of its research. In addition to self-review of research activities and releasing the results to the public, the University shall also receive evaluations from appropriate third parties to achieve accountability.

7.  Diversity in research
    The University of Tokyo shall aim to develop academic fields as well as pioneer to investigate new fields of research, while respecting the balanced research development and accumulation of results,. Furthermore, with respect to academic research topics spanning wide ranging fields of specialization, the University of Tokyo aims at creating new academic fields through the fusion of knowledge and, by taking advantage of its characteristics as a multi-faceted university, will develop connections with diverse organizations and people.

8.  Links in research
    The University of Tokyo shall maintain flexibility in its organization so that it can cope with societal and economic changes. The University shall collaborate with intellectuals outside the University and develop research links beyond the borders and play a dynamic role for promoting network-style research with a global perspective.

9. Societal benefits through research
    The University of Tokyo shall not seek to obtain results by taking short-cuts but instead aim to systematically develop a lasting and universal expertise. Furthermore, this University shall have studies linked with society reflected in its basic research.

    In order to return the benefits of research achievements to society through education, the University shall integrate the results of the most advanced research into its education and thereby foster the next generation of scholars.

10.  Principles of self-governance
     The University of Tokyo shall bear in mind that university self-governance has been specially entrusted to it by the people of Japan for the benefit of the society through the creation and development of knowledge free from any kind of bias, and the University shall not only strive perpetually for self-review but shall also autonomously fulfill its commitments.

11. Directions and duties of the University President
     The University of Tokyo strives for effective and responsive management under the overall direction and responsibility of its President, with due consideration given to the smooth and integrated formation of consensus among its constituent members with respect to education, research and administration. The University shall strive to see that diverse opinions from a wide range of society are reflected in its management.

12. Responsibilities of the constituent members of the University
     All the academic and administrative staff members as well as the students shall have the opportunity to take part in managing the university based on their function and field of activity, while recognizing their responsibilities and striving towards achieving the aims of the University of Tokyo.

13. Self-governance and duties of the basic organizations
     The faculties, graduate schools, and affiliated institutes of The University of Tokyo, as basic organizational units of autonomous operations, shall have fair opportunities to participate responsibly in the management of the entire University. Responsibilities include the resilience for essential self-reform with the objective of developing the system of education and research of the University as a whole.  

14. Autonomy with regard to personnel matters
     The University's self-governance policy lies in its autonomy regarding personnel matters. Thus, selection of staff such as the University President, vice presidents, deans of faculties and graduate schools, directors of institutes, faculty members, and other employees shall be carried out autonomously by the University of Tokyo itself on the basis of fair evaluations. Personnel matters regarding appointing the head and the faculty members of each basic organization shall be undertaken, after consultations and discussions with the respective organizations.

15. The fundamental goals of management
    Taking planned and appropriate advantage of the resources entrusted by the people of Japan, the University shall maintain and develop education and research of the highest standard in the world and return the fruits borne from them to society. To that end, the University shall endeavor to establish an educational and research environment, along with systems to provide academic information and medical care under financial plans made through fair and transparent decisions.

16. Financial structure
    The University of Tokyo shall be fully aware that the costs for supporting and developing its educational and research activities, along with those entailed in the maintenance and expansion of its infrastructure, are entrusted by the people of Japan. The University shall manage these resources appropriately and utilize them to the best possible effect. In addition, in response to special educational or research needs, the University of Tokyo shall accept outside funding from the state, public entities, public corporations, private companies, and/or individuals insofar as doing so does not run contrary to the guiding principles of the University.

17. Creating a conducive environment for research and education
    The University shall strive to use the facilities on each of its campuses for promoting educational and research activities constantly all the time responding flexibly to the developments and changes in its activities, as well as improving the well-being of all its members. Furthermore, the University shall create a healthy educational and research environment for all its members, by offering support for mental and physical health, providing accessibility and disability support services, ensuring safety and hygiene, along with conserving the environment and landscape. In doing so, it will fulfill its duties as a member of the local society.

18. Academic information and its release
    The University of Tokyo shall develop a fully-fledged information-related facilities such as libraries that are accessible to the entire University. The University shall make efforts to collect, preserve, and systematically make available the academic information necessary for educational and research activities. In addition to ensuring the members of the University means to use information equally through appropriate consideration in response to needs, the University shall also disseminate the information widely to society.

    The University of Tokyo shall actively release the information it possesses, and with regards to the use of information, it shall both hold itself up to a high standard of ethics and strive to protect personal information.

19. Respect for fundamental human rights
    The University of Tokyo shall eliminate inappropriate discrimination and restraints based on nationality, creed, gender, handicaps, lineage, etc., along with respecting basic human rights. The University shall strive to provide fair education, research, and working environment where all its members can safely demonstrate their individuality and abilities.

    The University of Tokyo shall strive to achieve equal participation where both men and women bear equal responsibility in the administration of the University.

20. The Charter’s significance
     This Charter constitutes fundamental principles related to the organization and management of the University of Tokyo. Legal provisions concerning the University of Tokyo shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with this Charter.

21. Revisions to the Charter
     Revisions to the Charter shall be undertaken by the University President through procedures stipulated separately.

